United States Supreme Court ORDER LIST 06/30/15, (2015) No. 063015zr Argued:     Decided: June 30, 2015
(ORDER LIST: 576 U.S.)
TUESDAY, JUNE 30, 2015 CERTIORARI -- SUMMARY DISPOSITIONS 14-460 HICKENLOOPER, GOV. OF CO V. KERR, ANDY, ET AL. The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted. The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit for further consideration in light of Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Comm'n, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). 14-8768 PEOPLES, SOL S. V. UNITED STATES 14-9487 HORNYAK, CHRISTOPHER M. V. UNITED STATES The motion of petitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petitions for writs of certiorari are granted. The judgments are vacated, and the cases are remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). 13-8407 BROWN, WENDELL T. V. UNITED STATES 14-7280 HOWARD, JAMES J. V. UNITED STATES 14-7653 ROLFER, GARY V. UNITED STATES 14-8427 WALKER, JAMES M. V. UNITED STATES 14-8530 LANGSTON, RONNIE V. UNITED STATES The motions of petitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petitions for writs of certiorari are granted. The judgments are vacated, and the cases are remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in these cases: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held these petitions in these and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding these petitions and now in vacating and remanding the decisions below in these cases, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioners would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of these petitions does not reflect any view regarding petitioners' entitlement to relief. 14-282 CHANDLER, TAVARES V. UNITED STATES The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted. The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in this case: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held the petition in this and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding this petition and now in vacating and remanding the decision below in this case, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioner would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of this petition does not reflect any view regarding petitioner's entitlement to relief. 14-5227 ARROYO, DANIEL V. UNITED STATES 14-7347 VINALES, ENRIQUE V. UNITED STATES 14-7832 DENSON, TONY E. V. UNITED STATES 14-8464 SMITH, FLORNOY V. UNITED STATES 14-8884 COOPER, ANTHONY L. V. UNITED STATES 14-9049 AIKEN, IAN O. V. PASTRANA, WARDEN 14-9227 KIRK, DANIEL C. V. UNITED STATES 14-9229 LYNCH, PAUL V. UNITED STATES 14-9335 DRIVER, TAIWAN L. V. UNITED STATES 14-9338 CONEY, JIMMY L. V. PASTRANA, WARDEN 14-9750 NIPPER, DONNIE W. V. PASTRANA, WARDEN The motions of petitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petitions for writs of certiorari are granted. The judgments are vacated, and the cases are remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in these cases: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held these petitions in these and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding these petitions and now in vacating and remanding the decisions below in these cases, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioners would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of these petitions does not reflect any view regarding petitioners' entitlement to relief. 14-5229 ANDERSON, ROBERT V. UNITED STATES The motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted. The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in this case: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held the petition in this and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding this petition and now in vacating and remanding the decision below in this case, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioner would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of this petition does not reflect any view regarding petitioner's entitlement to relief. 14-6510 MELVIN, MAURICE L. V. UNITED STATES 14-8848 TASTE, ANTONIO V. UNITED STATES The motions of petitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petitions for writs of certiorari are granted. The judgments are vacated, and the cases are remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in these cases: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held these petitions in these and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding these petitions and now in vacating and remanding the decisions below in these cases, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioners would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of these petitions does not reflect any view regarding petitioners' entitlement to relief. 14-7445 MALDONADO, SAMUEL V. UNITED STATES The motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted. The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in this case: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held the petition in this and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding this petition and now in vacating and remanding the decision below in this case, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioner would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of this petition does not reflect any view regarding petitioner's entitlement to relief. 14-7569 DE LA CRUZ, FRANCISCO V. UNITED STATES 14-8333 DAVIS, MICHAEL W. V. UNITED STATES The motions of petitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petitions for writs of certiorari are granted. The judgments are vacated, and the cases are remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in these cases: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held these petitions in these and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding these petitions and now in vacating and remanding the decisions below in these cases, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioners would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of these petitions does not reflect any view regarding petitioners' entitlement to relief. 14-7587 SMITH, ARTHUR C. V. UNITED STATES 14-8151 BERNARDINI, EUGENE V. UNITED STATES 14-8258 BALL, DERRICK M. V. UNITED STATES 14-8359 BELL, TERRENCE V. UNITED STATES 14-9062 HOLDER, ODELL A. V. UNITED STATES 14-9108 CASTLE, JASON V. UNITED STATES 14-9659 FALLINS, CARLOS V. UNITED STATES The motions of petitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petitions for writs of certiorari are granted. The judgments are vacated, and the cases are remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in these cases: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held these petitions in these and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding these petitions and now in vacating and remanding the decisions below in these cases, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioners would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of these petitions does not reflect any view regarding petitioners' entitlement to relief. 14-8196 CISNEROS, JORGE A. V. UNITED STATES 14-8569 PRINCE, BYRON C. V. UNITED STATES 14-8680 TALMORE, GERRIELL E. V. UNITED STATES 14-8903 JONES, LORENZO L. V. UNITED STATES 14-8989 MARTINEZ, MICHAEL A. V. UNITED STATES The motions of petitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petitions for writs of certiorari are granted. The judgments are vacated, and the cases are remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in these cases: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held these petitions in these and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding these petitions and now in vacating and remanding the decisions below in these cases, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioners would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of these petitions does not reflect any view regarding petitioners' entitlement to relief. 14-9574 JONES, ALFREDERICK V. UNITED STATES The motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted. The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in this case: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held the petition in this and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding this petition and now in vacating and remanding the decision below in this case, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioner would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of this petition does not reflect any view regarding petitioner's entitlement to relief. 14-7390 BECKLES, TRAVIS V. UNITED STATES The motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition for writ of certiorari are granted. The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this motion and this petition. Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in this case: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held the petition in this and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding this petition and now in vacating and remanding the decision below in this case, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioner would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of this petition does not reflect any view regarding petitioner's entitlement to relief. 14-7975 GOODEN, HOPETON F. V. UNITED STATES The motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition for writ of certiorari are granted. The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this motion and this petition. Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in this case: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held the petition in this and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding this petition and now in vacating and remanding the decision below in this case, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioner would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of this petition does not reflect any view regarding petitioner's entitlement to relief. 14-9326 MAYER, CASEY D. V. UNITED STATES The motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition for writ of certiorari are granted. The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this motion and this petition. Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in this case: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held the petition in this and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding this petition and now in vacating and remanding the decision below in this case, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioner would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of this petition does not reflect any view regarding petitioner's entitlement to relief. 14-9634 WYNN, ANTONIO V. UNITED STATES The motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition for writ of certiorari are granted. The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit for further consideration in light of Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). Justice Kagan took no part in the consideration or decision of this motion and this petition. Justice Alito concurring in the decision to grant, vacate, and remand in this case: Following the recommendation of the Solicitor General, the Court has held the petition in this and many other cases pending the decision in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ____ (2015). In holding this petition and now in vacating and remanding the decision below in this case, the Court has not differentiated between cases in which the petitioner would be entitled to relief if the Court held (as it now has) that the residual clause of the Armed Career Criminal Act of 1984, 18 U. S. C. Sec. 924(e)(2)(B)(ii), is void for vagueness and cases in which relief would not be warranted for a procedural reason. On remand, the Court of Appeals should understand that the Court's disposition of this petition does not reflect any view regarding petitioner's entitlement to relief. JURISDICTION NOTED 14-232 HARRIS, WESLEY W., ET AL. V. AZ INDEP. COMMISSION, ET AL. In this case probable jurisdiction is noted. CERTIORARI GRANTED 14-510 MENOMINEE INDIAN TRIBE OF WI V. UNITED STATES, ET AL. The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted limited to the following question: Whether the D. C. Circuit misapplied this Court's Holland decision when it ruled that the Tribe was not entitled to equitable tolling of the statute of limitations for filing of Indian Self-Determination Act claims under the Contract Disputes Act? 14-915 FRIEDRICHS, REBECCA, ET AL. V. CA TEACHERS ASSOC., ET AL. The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted. 14-1132 MERRILL LYNCH, ET AL. V. MANNING, GREG, ET AL. The motion of Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association for leave to file a brief as amici curiae is granted. The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted. 14-1175 CALIFORNIA FRANCHISE TAX BOARD V. HYATT, GILBERT P. The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted limited to Questions 2 and 3 presented by the petition. CERTIORARI DENIED 14-765 ) OTTER, GOV. OF ID, ET AL. V. LATTA, SUSAN, ET AL. ) 14-788 ) IDAHO V. LATTA, SUSAN, ET AL. 14-1073 NEVADA, ET AL. V. SUPERIOR COURT OF CA, ET AL. 14-9223 ZINK, DAVID, ET AL. V. LOMBARDI, DIR., MO DOC, ET AL. The petitions for writs of certiorari are denied. 14-823 BERGER, PHIL, ET AL. V. FISHER-BORNE, MARCIE, ET AL. The petition for a writ of certiorari before judgment is denied.
