United States Supreme Court SOUTH DAKOTA v. NEBRASKA, (1982) No. 72 Argued:     Decided: June 28, 1982
This matter comes before this Court on Stipulation by each of the parties hereto: the State of South Dakota, by and through its Attorney General, Mark Meierhenry; the State of Nebraska, by and through its Attorney General, Paul L. Douglas; the Intervenors, by and through themselves and their attorney, Everett A. Bogue.
FINDINGS AND DECREE
1. The parties have concluded that it is in the best interest of each of them to avoid litigation and multiple exercises of sovereignty and jurisdiction, encourage the optimum beneficial use of the river, its facilities and its waters, and remove all causes of controversy between said parties with respect to the location of the boundary between the States and, therefore, to settle and to terminate this dispute by agreement and compromise and submission of the boundary between the State of South Dakota and the State of Nebraska with respect to Rush Island in the future to a Joint State Boundary Commission.
2. In the furtherance of the best interests of each of the parties, it is agreed that that land known as "Elk/Rush Island," subject of this lawsuit, is now, and has been, within the boundary of the State of Nebraska and subject to its jurisdiction.
3. The State of South Dakota has agreed to cede to the Intervenors any right or title it may have in the subject property known as "Elk/Rush Island," more fully described in Appendix A attached to the Stipulation; and the State of South [458 U.S. 276, 277]   Dakota specifically recognizes the Judgment of the District Court of Cedar County, Nebraska, dated November 7, 1958, which quieted title to the above identified land in Clyde Gill and others, predecessors of the Intervenors, which action can be found in the records of Cedar County District Court of Nebraska, Case No. 5628, Docket 24, [458 U.S. 276, 13]   .
4. The State of South Dakota has further agreed to dismiss an action to quiet title filed in the Circuit Court of Yankton, South Dakota, regarding this subject property.
5. The States of Nebraska and South Dakota have agreed to submit the determination of future boundary changes with regard to "Elk/Rush Island" but not to the title to the premises therein, to a Joint State Boundary Commission appointed by the elected officials of these respective States for the Commission's determination from the date of that determination forth.
IT IS, THEREFORE, ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED that pursuant to the above Stipulations and Findings:
1. That the land known as "Elk/Rush Island," the subject of this litigation, be and the same is within the boundary of the State of Nebraska, and subject to its jurisdiction;
2. That the State of South Dakota hereby cedes to the Intervenors any right or title it may have to the subject property known as "Elk/Rush Island" as more fully described in Appendix A attached hereto;
3. That the States of Nebraska and South Dakota will submit the determination of the future boundary changes, if any, with regard to "Elk/Rush Island," but not to the title of the premises thereto, to a Joint State Boundary Commission appointed by the elected officials of these respective States for the Commission's determination from the date of that determination forth;
4. That the State of South Dakota and the State of Nebraska will proceed to effectuate any and all other requirements agreed to in the Stipulation to the extent that conditions and circumstances permit; and
5. Each party shall bear its own costs. [458 U.S. 276, 278]
APPENDIX A
[458 U.S. 276, 70]
[458 U.S. 276, 279]
